>> Scott Moss: I do wanna get
into a little other cool stuff.
I think that'll be super helpful in
your journey with front-end graphql and
stuff like that.
So one thing to note here is
a really cool feature called aliasing
using queries and mutations.
So if you have fields, like in this case,
we have a field called name.
What else do we have here on a character?
Name, status, species, type, gender,
origin, image, episode, all this stuff.
So if I wanted to, for instance,
we get a name here, but
let's say in the component of my UI,
I'm not looking for
a character.name, I'm looking for
a character died.
Full Name, something like that,
it's not name, and
I don't wanna go change
it in my component.
So I just want to change
it from grayscale, so
I can stick his trademark component.
But I also don't have access to
the server to go change the whole API, or
maybe something else is using name.
And if I change it on the API level,
it's gonna break everything else.
So I don't wanna change the name.
But I also don't wanna change it and
my react app.
So what do I do?
This is where alias is coming.
So with an alias,
I can just put whatever I want.
So left of it like that.
And now, I can Alias Name with whatever I
want it to be, in this case, full name.
So if I were to do that,
it changes the format.
This is really cool.
One of the things I like
to do with aliases is,
if you notice, when whatever query or
mutation, you run the name of it.
That's what you get back at the response.
So you'll get data dot
whatever the query name is.
Sometimes, I don't like that and this
cases were done is already results here.
But sometimes,
I'll do something like, results.
And I'll actually A list a querie,
and I'll make sure all of my queries
have data dot results or something like
that verses data dot, whatever the name of
that querie is, and having to figure
it out every time and going back.
I just always A list it to a standard
name that I always use for
every single querie, and
I can look for it that way.
So that's one thing to know, but yeah,
you can alias any field that you want.
Another good example of doing aliases,
is if you
have conflicting fields from union
types or from interfaces, you can do
aliases to change whatever those field
values are, and stuff like that.
That way you don't have
that that collision there.
So really another good example of that.
The other thing is you can run
multiple queries in one API call.
So if I wanted to run another query
simultaneously within the same operation,
even the exact same query,
like I could just do this.
I can just copy this and run this again.
If I try to execute this with both
queries happening simultaneously,
graph QL can support that.
But when I execute them right now,
it actually won't run too, and
that's because they're both the same name.
So by default,
this is gonna get de-duplicated.
It's gonna realize like, you're actually
already running a query with the exact
same name, so I was only gonna run them
once, I'm gonna de-duplicate it for you,
or to get this to run, I would have
to alias this to something else.
And then, when I execute this, you can
see I get something else down here.
So that's another good example of using
aliases on field levels, is to help you
resolve the point where you have like
multiple queries running at one time.
And then, on the server side, this is all
gonna happen pretty much in parallel.
So this is you adding multiple
queries to one operation, but
at the same time,
depending on what framework you're using,
you might be running multiple operations
at one time that all get batched, as well.
So if you think about let's
say you load up your app.
Your app started up, and
it had an operation that ran for
the nav bar to get the user.
It had a operation for whatever page
you're looking on to get the main data.
Another operation that ran
that did something else.
Each one was operations had 10 queries
inside of them for some reason.
That's 30 queries, your server is gonna
be executing at pretty much one time.
So something to think about there.
But as a front end person working on this,
you don't care.
I guess, it doesn't really matter,
but just something to think
about when you're executing your
careers and putting them together.
There's a lot of other cool stuff
that we'll get to with queries, and
mutations, and things like that.
But, for now, yeah, this is it.
And then, I guess, on the flip side of
this, I've been talking about queries for
mutations if you want to
do a mutation operation.
It's very similar to a query operation.
You just use the mutation keyword.
And then, you also just do,
I don't think this API has any mutations.
Which is why I can actually execute.
Yeah, there's no mutations on this API,
but
you can just do mutation followed
by whatever operation you want.
Let's say I was creating a character
>> Scott Moss: And
I wanted some variables there,
and if there was a mutation,
I would use that one here,
createCharacter.
>> Scott Moss: That is the same thing,
it follows the same rules as the query.
So the only difference here is you
use the mutation keyword to the left
versus the query keyword,
that's it, nothing else changed.
It's the exact same thing, the same
variable rules, same, all of that stuff.
So all good to go, yes?
>> Speaker 2: So
what's the point of naming mutations?
Will those be cached, as well?
>> Scott Moss: That's a good question,
will mutations be cached, as well?
No, mutations themselves aren't cashed,
because, yeah,
they're not really cached, but
the operations are still gonna be indexed.
So you can reference them through tools,
and you'll see another
tool that we're gonna download for react
that, it's very important to name these.
But as far as like the data being cached,
no, they're not going to be cached for
you like a query would, at least not
with the library that we're using,
some libraries might do it, but, no.
The reason, I think, it's important to,
to also just put these names on them,
is because you might not, you don't really
understand unless you built it what
the tools you're using
are gonna be doing with them.
So in that case, I tend to just always
add operation names when I'm doing
client site implementations,
because, I have no idea what this
library that I downloaded is expecting,
what it's doing with these names,
if it's planning on indexing,
if it's trying to cache them, or if it's
doing something smart that I'm not aware
of, always just provide the name for it.
But, no,
you’re not gonna have cache mutations.
Only query results are going to be cached.
And we’ll get to the point, how do you
update a cache after you mutate something.
Cuz you will have to do that.
So we’ll talk about that.
>> Speaker 3: What’s that across the wire?
There's a string posted?
>> Scott Moss: Good question.
So there's a lot of ways that this
could happen, as a get request,
then this is going to be
a query string on the end with,
I think the parameters literally, or the
query is actually called query equals, and
is literally your query string of fire, up
to the maximum character, whatever can be.
Same thing with mutations.
Mutations can also be on the get request.
And that happens to the most
time is gonna be a POST request.
Post requires, I believe, it's going
to be a body that has query in it.
And it's gonna be your query as a string,
and there's variables,
there's gonna be a field called variables,
and that's gonna be your variables object.
And that's basically what gets it up.
But yeah, most of the times,
it's gonna be a post request,
unless you're doing something persistent
query, or something like that where you
can still get request what the URL,
you're good to go.
>> Speaker 4: Is there any support for
like something in this one if you have
list of characters and they have a list
of episodes, rather than returning all
the episodes in the field on there, just
returning like the number of episodes?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
that's a good question.
So there's a couple of ways
that you can support that.
The easy way, or the obvious way is
whoever made the API needs a supportive
field that says episode count, that's one.
The other thing you could do, and
all of these are gonna require someone on
the back in doing something, the other
thing you can do is have a directive
that we haven't talked too much about
directive or directives at all, but,
basically, you can have a directive
that might say, I don't know,
it might have something in here
called count or something like that.
It could do anything, a directive could
literally do anything that allows you to
get that, I know there are some
really cool ones, Lodash, GraphQL.
Let me see if this is still a thing.
So this directive library is something
that you can add to GraphQL that allows
you to basically use Lodash inside
of a query, which is really cool.
So something like this might be able to
offer you that flexibility without having
to ask the person working on the server
to change something, but, yeah,
most times,
it's gonna require a backend change.